Welcome back.
I hope you took a nice long break after the function's video because I know we covered a lot.
We're going to learn something a little bit easier this time around and we're going to learn our first
data structure.
Now what is a data structure.
Up until now we've only learned about numbers strings.
Billions undefined and functions but how do you store all of them.
We said that a variable is like a desk drawer but you don't want to throw everything in there and have
a huge mess or you don't want to throw just a pen and close that drawer.
Ideally you can store more things you can organize then data structures are like compartment holders
in your desk kind of like this picture over here different data structures are good at different things.
For example in this picture it looks like the file cabinet is really really good for finding things
because it's sorted in alphabetical order and data structures.
Give us this ability to store information and access it in a way that is useful to us.
So let's learn our first data structure and that is
arrays let's open up our console and we have our script file here and we're going to write our first
survey by doing variable list and we will have square brackets tiger cat bear and let's do bird so it's
still a variable and you see strings here.
The only thing that's different are these square brackets but I call this list and it does look like
a list but I could have called this anything list of animals for example but in an area like I said
is a way to organize information.
And this is organized in this way.
But how do we grab it how do we grab one of these four items from the desk drawer the way you access
an array is with something like this
OK.
So variable name square brackets a number and square brackets list to console all log and see what happens
I get cat.
Now most of you might have thought that we would get Tiger.
I mean list we want the first item in the list.
Maybe that's how you read it but that's not actually how it works in computer science.
Developers like counting from zero so zeros the first number then one then two then three.
So we always start counting from zero.
So if you want to get Tiger from this list you do zero and let's refresh and we get Tiger let's play
around with this in the console if I copy the list and put it like this
the console actually gives us a nice
of the array and we see that we have zero Tiger one cat to bear three bird.
So as you can see an array is just a nice way for us to list items in an order from 0 1 2 and 3.
Now what kind of things can arrays hold or is it just strings.
Well not really.
We can do variable numbers and have one two three four we can have polygons and we can have true false
true again and this is the fun part.
You can also have functions as an array so I can do.
Function Apple
console log apple
and then close up with the square brackets and function list now has an array a location zero of Apple.
Here is even what year we can do a variable let's call it mixed list and that can contain strings can
have numbers can have undefined.
You can have billions and like I show need before you can have functions
and mixed lists.
Now has a whole bunch of wacky stuff.
Now this is not advised.
It's actually a bit of a performance issue when you have arrays with different types.
So you want to keep it the same but I do want to show you that we can put anything in arrays we can
also make arrays within an array
do you see what I just did here.
We have an array that has an array of tiger cat bare bird.
So if we save this and refresh what do you think will happen we get an array that has tiger cat their
bird.
But we accessed 0 let's try that again without the zero and see what happens this time we get a new
array just like it says here that has and whoever hit inside of it.
So how do we get let's say bear.
Well we would say we want a first array and then another pair of square brackets.
And because Tiger is at 0 1 2 We want to or takes a tiger and then bear so we're getting the first array
this one.
And within that first array we want 0 1 2 the bear.
Let's see if that works.
And then we get better now.
Arrays are cool because JavaScript has predefined methods for them.
And what are those for now.
Think of them as functions their functions that we can use on arrays.
Don't worry about too much the term method we'll get to it later.
But let me show you what I mean.
If we return this list to the way it was
back to Tiger cat their bird so let's to let's look a list.
What we have in list now you have tiger cat bear bird.
Okay so let's see what sort of methods we can add to the list.
Lists plus two shift and let's see what that does.
I get back Tiger but if I look at the list now Tiger has been moved.
I've shifted the array to removed Tiger and now everything's shifted to the left.
What if I do list dot
I get bird.
So if we look at the list now it's popped bird off of the end of the array and now I only have cat and
there.
What if we do list dot push and then push needs to have an argument let's do elephant
and now we get back the number three you might guess what that means and let's look a list.
And now we have cat bear and elephants.
So three items in the array let's clean this up a bit.
Let's just double check what we have in the list.
Perfect.
What's another thing that we can do well we can also do list dot com Cat 4 concatenate and in here we
can actually add another array.
Let's do B and dear this press enter and now we have an array of five items.
Cat bear elephant B and deer and I haven't told you this but when we look at the numbers 0 1 2 3 4.
Cold index in a race so index means cat has an index of zero.
Bear an index of one elephant of to be a three deer an index of four.
OK.
Let's do one last thing and then you can go do some exercises.
As you can see arrays are a ton of fun while I sing I want to show you is this.
If we do list that sort well as the name suggests
we now have a sorted list.
But well why do we only have three items.
Why not five.
And this is a little bit tricky.
You have to you have to practice a bit with the race to understand them.
We've sorted our array but only the original one the one that we concatenated.
The one that we added We did an assigned to a variable.
So it created a new array.
So now we had two arrays in existence the list which only had bare cat an elephant.
And another list can cat be dear that we did and capture the value of we did and assign it to a variable
to show you.
Let's copy this again and try this variable.
My list equals
okay.
We have these five items and let's do variable.
My new list equals my list Dokken cat
and we'll do an array with monkey.
So now if I look at my list I have five items.
Cat bear elephant bee dear.
But if I look at my new list I have six items with monkey in it so there are some methods that creates
new lists like on cat and some methods like push or pop that don't create a new list.
Just modify the current one I have some exercises for you at the end of this video.
This is a really fun data structure.
Hopefully you're excited about learning this one.
That's it for race.
Once you understand the syntax and the structure this has a lot of power.
The last thing I wanted to show you was that our good friend w 3C
has a great list of references of what methods or race have.
So you can read through them as you work on your exercises.
There's a few things that I didn't cover in the video that you'll have to search yourself through here
to figure out why you'll need to solve the problems I'll see in the next one.
Bye bye.